:py:mod:`kai.reduce.slalib`
===========================

.. py:module:: kai.reduce.slalib


Module Contents
---------------


Functions
~~~~~~~~~

.. autoapisummary::

   kai.reduce.slalib.refco
   kai.reduce.slalib.refro
   kai.reduce.slalib.atmt
   kai.reduce.slalib.atms
   kai.reduce.slalib.da1p



.. py:function:: refco(HM, TDK, PMB, RH, WL, PHI, TLR, EPS)

   
   Determine the constants A and B in the atmospheric refraction
   model dZ = A tan Z + B tan**3 Z.

   Z is the "observed" zenith distance (i.e. affected by refraction)
   and dZ is what to add to Z to give the "topocentric" (i.e. in vacuo)
   zenith distance.

   Given:
     HM      d     height of the observer above sea level (metre)
     TDK     d     ambient temperature at the observer (deg K)
     PMB     d     pressure at the observer (millibar)
     RH      d     relative humidity at the observer (range 0-1)
     WL      d     effective wavelength of the source (micrometre)
     PHI     d     latitude of the observer (radian, astronomical)
     TLR     d     temperature lapse rate in the troposphere (degK/metre)
     EPS     d     precision required to terminate iteration (radian)

   Returned:
     REFA    d     tan Z coefficient (radian)
     REFB    d     tan**3 Z coefficient (radian)

   Called:  refco

   Notes:

   1  Typical values for the TLR and EPS arguments might be 0.0065D0 and
      1D-10 respectively.

   2  The radio refraction is chosen by specifying WL > 100 micrometres.

   3  The routine is a slower but more accurate alternative to the
      slRFCQ routine.  The constants it produces give perfect
      agreement with slRFRO at zenith distances arctan(1) (45 deg)
      and arctan(4) (about 76 deg).  It achieves 0.5 arcsec accuracy
      for ZD < 80 deg, 0.01 arcsec accuracy for ZD < 60 deg, and
      0.001 arcsec accuracy for ZD < 45 deg.

   P.T.Wallace   Starlink   3 June 1997

   Copyright (C) 1997 Rutherford Appleton Laboratory
   Copyright (C) 1995 Association of Universities for Research in Astronomy Inc.

   Migrated from SLALIB (fortran) to python:
   J. R. Lu -- 2015-05-13















   ..
       !! processed by numpydoc !!

.. py:function:: refro(ZOBS, HM, TDK, PMB, RH, WL, PHI, TLR, EPS)

   
   Atmospheric refraction for radio and optical/IR wavelengths.

   Given:
     ZOBS    d  observed zenith distance of the source (radian)
     HM      d  height of the observer above sea level (metre)
     TDK     d  ambient temperature at the observer (deg K)
     PMB     d  pressure at the observer (millibar)
     RH      d  relative humidity at the observer (range 0-1)
     WL      d  effective wavelength of the source (micrometre)
     PHI     d  latitude of the observer (radian, astronomical)
     TLR     d  temperature lapse rate in the troposphere (degK/metre)
     EPS     d  precision required to terminate iteration (radian)

   Returned:
     REF     d  refraction: in vacuo ZD minus observed ZD (radian)

   Notes:

   1  A suggested value for the TLR argument is 0.0065.  The
      refraction is significantly affected by TLR, and if studies
      of the local atmosphere have been carried out a better TLR
      value may be available.

   2  A suggested value for the EPS argument is 1D-8.  The result is
      usually at least two orders of magnitude more computationally
      precise than the supplied EPS value.

   3  The routine computes the refraction for zenith distances up
      to and a little beyond 90 deg using the method of Hohenkerk
      and Sinclair (NAO Technical Notes 59 and 63, subsequently adopted
      in the Explanatory Supplement, 1992 edition - see section 3.281).

   4  The code is a development of the optical/IR refraction subroutine
      AREF of C.Hohenkerk (HMNAO, September 1984), with extensions to
      support the radio case.  Apart from merely cosmetic changes, the
      following modifications to the original HMNAO optical/IR refraction
      code have been made:

      .  The angle arguments have been changed to radians.

      .  Any value of ZOBS is allowed (see note 6, below).

      .  Other argument values have been limited to safe values.

      .  Murray's values for the gas constants have been used
         (Vectorial Astrometry, Adam Hilger, 1983).

      .  The numerical integration phase has been rearranged for
         extra clarity.

      .  A better model for Ps(T) has been adopted (taken from
         Gill, Atmosphere-Ocean Dynamics, Academic Press, 1982).

      .  More accurate expressions for Pwo have been adopted
         (again from Gill 1982).

      .  Provision for radio wavelengths has been added using
         expressions devised by A.T.Sinclair, RGO (private
         communication 1989), based on the Essen & Froome
         refractivity formula adopted in Resolution 1 of the
         13th International Geodesy Association General Assembly
         (Bulletin Geodesique 70 p390, 1963).

      .  Various small changes have been made to gain speed.

      None of the changes significantly affects the optical/IR results
      with respect to the algorithm given in the 1992 Explanatory
      Supplement.  For example, at 70 deg zenith distance the present
      routine agrees with the ES algorithm to better than 0.05 arcsec
      for any reasonable combination of parameters.  However, the
      improved water-vapour expressions do make a significant difference
      in the radio band, at 70 deg zenith distance reaching almost
      4 arcsec for a hot, humid, low-altitude site during a period of
      low pressure.

   5  The radio refraction is chosen by specifying WL > 100 micrometres.
      Because the algorithm takes no account of the ionosphere, the
      accuracy deteriorates at low frequencies, below about 30 MHz.

   6  Before use, the value of ZOBS is expressed in the range +/- pi.
      If this ranged ZOBS is -ve, the result REF is computed from its
      absolute value before being made -ve to match.  In addition, if
      it has an absolute value greater than 93 deg, a fixed REF value
      equal to the result for ZOBS = 93 deg is returned, appropriately
      signed.

   7  As in the original Hohenkerk and Sinclair algorithm, fixed values
      of the water vapour polytrope exponent, the height of the
      tropopause, and the height at which refraction is negligible are
      used.

   8  The radio refraction has been tested against work done by
      Iain Coulson, JACH, (private communication 1995) for the
      James Clerk Maxwell Telescope, Mauna Kea.  For typical conditions,
      agreement at the 0.1 arcsec level is achieved for moderate ZD,
      worsening to perhaps 0.5-1.0 arcsec at ZD 80 deg.  At hot and
      humid sea-level sites the accuracy will not be as good.

   9  It should be noted that the relative humidity RH is formally
      defined in terms of "mixing ratio" rather than pressures or
      densities as is often stated.  It is the mass of water per unit
      mass of dry air divided by that for saturated air at the same
      temperature and pressure (see Gill 1982).

   Called:  slDA1P, slATMT, slATMS

   P.T.Wallace   Starlink   3 June 1997

   Copyright (C) 1997 Rutherford Appleton Laboratory
   Copyright (C) 1995 Association of Universities for Research in Astronomy Inc.















   ..
       !! processed by numpydoc !!

.. py:function:: atmt(R0, T0, ALPHA, GAMM2, DELM2, C1, C2, C3, C4, C5, C6, R)

   
   Internal routine used by REFRO

   Refractive index and derivative with respect to height for the
   troposphere.

   Given:
     R0      d    height of observer from centre of the Earth (metre)
     T0      d    temperature at the observer (deg K)
     ALPHA   d    alpha          )
     GAMM2   d    gamma minus 2  ) see HMNAO paper
     DELM2   d    delta minus 2  )
     C1      d    useful term  )
     C2      d    useful term  )
     C3      d    useful term  ) see source
     C4      d    useful term  ) of slRFRO
     C5      d    useful term  )
     C6      d    useful term  )
     R       d    current distance from the centre of the Earth (metre)

   Returned:
     T       d    temperature at R (deg K)
     DN      d    refractive index at R
     RDNDR   d    R    rate the refractive index is changing at R

   Note that in the optical case C5 and C6 are zero.

   P.T.Wallace   Starlink   30 May 1997

   Copyright (C) 1997 Rutherford Appleton Laboratory
   Copyright (C) 1995 Association of Universities for Research in Astronomy Inc.















   ..
       !! processed by numpydoc !!

.. py:function:: atms(RT, TT, DNT, GAMAL, R)

   
   Internal routine used by REFRO

   Refractive index and derivative with respect to height for the
   stratosphere.

   Given:
     RT      d    height of tropopause from centre of the Earth (metre)
     TT      d    temperature at the tropopause (deg K)
     DNT     d    refractive index at the tropopause
     GAMAL   d    constant of the atmospheric model = G  MD/R
     R       d    current distance from the centre of the Earth (metre)

   Returned:
     DN      d    refractive index at R
     RDNDR   d    R    rate the refractive index is changing at R

   P.T.Wallace   Starlink   14 July 1995

   Copyright (C) 1995 Rutherford Appleton Laboratory
   Copyright (C) 1995 Association of Universities for Research in Astronomy Inc.















   ..
       !! processed by numpydoc !!

.. py:function:: da1p(ANGLE)

   
   Normalize angle into range +/- pi  (double precision)

   Given:
      ANGLE     dp      the angle in radians

   The result (double precision) is ANGLE expressed in the range +/- pi.

   P.T.Wallace   Starlink   23 November 1995

   Copyright (C) 1995 Rutherford Appleton Laboratory
   Copyright (C) 1995 Association of Universities for Research in Astronomy Inc.















   ..
       !! processed by numpydoc !!

